# Policy palace

{!! dateblock !!}

8fold, llc ("8fold") makes its governance processes transparent through various policies and agreements outlined here. In some cases, documents are included by reference, thereby extending the overarching document as applicable.

Agreements are between 8fold and its various users related to treatment to mutual benefit. Policies are used to establish governance regarding what happens under various situations; for example, a policy may govern what happens when one of the agreements is no longer satisfied. Further, policies may be included with the agreements themselves when appropriate.

## Data policy

You own your data. 8fold is a steward of it.

### Definitions

"Generating" or "generated" data is data created by 8fold sites, services, products, and content ("Services") for internal use only. While usually not derived from the collected information, they may be in accordance with other policies and agreements.

"Collecting" or "collected" data is data requested from visitors, not generated by 8fold. **All collected data must** be required for legal reasons, provider compliance, technical operations, or a combination by 8fold Services. For details, see [our user agreements](/legal/user-agreements/).

"Storing" or "stored" data is generated or collected data stored in a persistent medium for later use.

### Overview

8fold avoids collecting data unless required for operation of or improvement to various products and services.

When storing data is required, 8fold will make a good-faith effort to:

1. store data in multiple locations to mitigate aggregation of data,
2. limit direct access to sensitive data when practical (e.g., we do not store full credit card numbers, nor do we have access to those numbers from our processors),
3. encrypt all data stored except when doing so would render a product or service unusable or impractical,
4. separate private and public operations to ensure sensitive information is processed within and between trusted, known devices and service providers.

This non-exhaustive list represents the foundation of our measures to increase system security. While 8fold cannot guarantee system security, it does take reasonable steps to maintain it. If you suspect system security has been breached, contact 8fold.

Please see the appropriate [user agreements](/legal/user-agreements) for specific information on data collected, under what circumstances, and for what purposes.

<details>
<summary>What 8fold does to help secure data</summary>

#### Secure by default, and know who you're talking to

We use [.Transport Layer Security](TLS) and [.HyperText Transfer Protocol Secure](HTTPS) by default. Therefore, if you go to an 8fold website specifying [.HyperText Transfer Protocol](HTTP), you will be redirected to the HTTPS version. The HTTPS version uses a certificate to verify with your device that you are talking to one of our computers. If you go to what you believe is an 8fold site and it does not use HTTPS, please leave the website and contact 8fold.

We may request information to verify your identity when contacting 8fold.

#### Encryption and separation

"Encryption" can be a misnomer; therefore, it may be more appropriate to say we obfuscate data in some manner.

8fold obfuscates most data at rest. 8fold, as often as practical, partners with service providers who obfuscate data at rest and data in transit.

In some cases, we may use [multiple encryption](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiple_encryption) or one-way hashing, which means obfuscated data may be obfuscated again, or the stored data should not be reversible. For example, an obfuscated password may be stored in a way that we cannot recreate the original; therefore, a submitted potential is given to us, passed through an algorithm, and compared against the one stored, which means passwords cannot be recovered, only overwritten.

</details>

<details>
<summary>What you can do to help secure data</summary>

#### Keep it secret, keep it safe

Do not disclose information unless it's necessary to reach a goal. Even if it is required to reach your goal, understand *why* that specific piece of data is required.

For example, the first step in becoming a [Registered User](/legal/user-agreements/) is to provide an email address. 8fold does not store this email address as-is, and can not retrieve it.

8fold is an invitation-only platform; therefore, 8fold requires somewhere to send the invitation (as well as confirmation that you—or someone with access to that email address—requested the invitation). We specifically require a registered and preferred means of digital communication.

Encrypt your data whenever possible. Most operating systems allow you to encrypt what is referred to as "data at rest" (e.g., your computer's hard drive). It is also possible to encrypt data traveling from one computer to another ("data in transit") so long as the receiver can decrypt that data.

#### Passwords

Passwords should:

* be long, we chose a minimum of 8, you have up to 255.
* contain special characters, including spaces—preferably _not_ the exclamation mark (!).
* contain a non-obvious phrase you’ll remember.
* be something you can remember, even if you never type it or use a password management tool; you may not have access to that tool.

See also Lorrie Faith Cranor’s TED Talk entitled [What’s wrong with your pa$$w0rd?](https://www.ted.com/talks/lorrie_faith_cranor_what_s_wrong_with_your_pa_w0rd/up-next?language=en).

</details>

## Privacy policy

### Definitions

"Personal information" is defined by 8fold and other governing bodies as information that can be linked to an individual person and includes, but is not limited to, email addresses, legal names, and phone numbers.

"Sensitive information" is often personal information but may not be and could be used by a malicious actor to cause harm or duress and includes, but is not limited to, credit card numbers, a physical address, and political party or religious affiliation.

### Overview

8fold will not collect or store personal or sensitive information unless required for the operation of a product or service.

8fold will not knowingly make public your personal or sensitive information. This information may be made available to 8fold Practitioners or third-party service providers to facilitate Services and support.

When using third-party service providers, 8fold will make a good-faith effort to transmit any personal or sensitive information directly to the third party and interact with them per their data and privacy policies and procedures.

Personal and sensitive information entrusted to 8fold will not be sold under any circumstances. Further, 8fold will not knowingly enter into a partnership with a third party who would. If you believe 8fold has unwittingly entered into such an agreement, contact 8fold.

Please see the appropriate [user agreements](/legal/user-agreements) for specific information on data collected, under what circumstances, and for what purposes.

<details>
<summary>User accounts</summary>

Some Services require receiving messages from 8fold and its Practitioners. Beyond messages from the Practitioners you work with, you may receive administrative communications, which may include changes in policy or release notes for software maintained by 8fold and its Practitioners.

As such, we will collect and store an obfuscated version of **at least one email address**.

You may withdraw your consent to receive communications at any time. However, withdrawing consent to some communications may result in no longer being classified as a member or user of 8fold and the Services offered by its Practitioners. In most cases, your relationship is with the Practitioner and not 8fold. Therefore, you will be subject to their policies and procedures.

</details>


<details>
<summary>Site usage tracking</summary>

When tracking is enabled on 8fold sites, we collect only information needed to differentiate humans from web crawlers, what pages were visited, and when; specifically:

1. a system-developed session identifier,
2. the current [.URL](uniform resource locator) the session is associated with,
3. the URL from which the session arrived at the current URL, and
4. the time the session arrived at the current URL using our server clocks.

These data are collected to help gain insight into how users traverse the sites, how long they stay, where they came from (referrers), and the number of sessions (not individuals).

For purposes of site usage tracking, 8fold **does not** collect or store:

1. your IP Address,
2. your location,
3. browser and other client information (including browsing history), or
4. any known personal information that can be used atomically or in aggregate to identify a living person.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Cookies</summary>

We make a good-faith effort to avoid using cookies stored on your device except for tracking (see above) and when necessary for the site or software's function. Cross-site tracking cookies are prohibited on all websites.

Some third-party services we use may place their own cookies in your browser. This Privacy Policy covers the use of cookies used by 8fold and not the use of cookies by third parties. However, if it's possible to avoid placing such a cookie and still use the service, we will. There are currently no known third-party service providers using cookies.

If you notice cookies on your device claiming to be from any 8fold Service, please contact 8fold and delete the cookie.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Disclosure of your information</summary>

As a rule, we do not share your personal information outside of 8fold. Further, we avoid sharing personal information among Practitioners in keeping with client confidentiality. Therefore, we may talk about "a client" or "my client" when seeking advice, coaching, and consulting between Practitioners.

We will not sell your information.

We may share your personal information with third parties in limited circumstances, including:

1. with your consent;
2. to a vendor or partner who meets our data protection standards in order to help facilitate a feature you requested access to or
3. when we believe it is required by law, such as pursuant to a subpoena or other legal process.

If we share your information in response to legal processes, we will attempt to give you advance notice so you can challenge it (for example, by seeking intervention from the courts) unless we're prohibited by law or court order. We will object to requests for information about users of our Services we believe to be improper.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Right to be forgotten</summary>

The [.GDPR](General Data Protection Regulation) is a law governing how businesses must steward data when providing Services to someone residing in the [.EU](European Union). While 8fold believes most of the practices listed should be done because it's the right thing to do, having the aid of regulation is helpful.

Article 17 of the GDPR is entitled "Right to Erasure" ("right to be forgotten"). Under this article, and because it's just the civil thing to do, you have the ability to delete or request the deletion of your personal information stored by 8fold. If the law of the United States requires retention of certain data, it will be retained for that period and no longer.

Sometimes, you are unable to delete your account or notify 8fold; therefore, the following protocol is designed to help ensure the security of your information.

1. **After 6 months of inactivity** 8fold will attempt to contact you using the email address on file to let you know we hope you are well and explain the implications should you remain inactive.
2. **After 12 months of inactivity** 8fold will attempt to contact you again using all communication channels you’ve provided. The notice will inform you that your account has been marked inactive, and any subscriptions we can cancel have been canceled.
3. **After 18 months of inactivity**, 8fold will contact you again through all channels, export the data on your behalf, provide instructions on how to retrieve the exported data and delete your account.
4. **6 months after export**, the data that can be deleted will be, and any residual data will be deleted based on 8fold and legal data retention schedules.

#### Modifying your personal information or deleting your account

If you have an 8fold account, you can access and modify your personal information or delete it.

To protect information from accidental or malicious destruction, we may not immediately delete residual copies from our active servers and may not remove information from our backup systems.

If you delete your account, your account and content may be unrecoverable.

</details>

## Accessibility Policy

8fold caters to the most constrained, which means we actively pursue making our Services available to the widest audience possible. This pursuit goes beyond physical limitations to include mental and technological.

That said, just as no one can provide an absolute guarantee of a system's security, we cannot guarantee the universal accessibility of Services.

If you believe we missed something, please contact 8fold.

<details>
<summary>Physical locations</summary>

There are times when 8fold Practitioners may reserve, operate, or occupy physical locations. When identifying such locations, we strive to ensure they comply with the [.ADA](Americans with Disability Acts) as a foundation, striving to take other considerations into account.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Software (including websites)</summary>

8fold Practitioners create a variety of Services. When it comes to software, including websites, 8fold Practitioners use the [[.WCAG](Web Content Accessibility Guidelines)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/) as their foundation. All software products should meet one hundred percent of Level [.AA](double A) and thirty percent of Level [.AAA](triple A), both of which require one hundred percent compliance with Level A.

Beyond what we believe is a minimum provided by WCAG, we consider performance and other considerations despite technological limitations to be accessibility concerns.

8fold also recommends using these guidelines beyond software to inform hardware and print designs.

#### Browser support

There's always a con. Always.

We don't wish to play favorites when it comes to browsers (web clients); therefore, we won't list any here. However, there are plenty of browsers to choose from, and regardless of your operating system, you should be able to find at least three browsers able to run any 8fold website or web-based application. It may not be the experience we designed, but it will work.

With that said, we actively test and support browsers that come preinstalled on macOS and Windows and those with a usage rating greater than 1.5 percent according to [Can I Use...](https://caniuse.com/usage-table) aggregated data on browser usage.

</details>

## Intellectual Property &<br> Content Policy

You own your content; therefore, are responsible for it.

8fold believes creative work has value, and you, the creator, have the right to pursue that value. 8fold, as a legal entity, not a sentient being, does _not_ create anything. Therefore, 8fold is not the publisher of any works posted by its registered users. 8fold Practitioners do not screen works before they are posted, and there is no approval process. Note: A screening and approval process may be applied to Practitioners posting in the name of 8fold or its divisions.

When posting to 8fold Services, you are claiming that you either:

1. are the copyright holder for such material,
2. have permission from the copyright holder to post the material or
3. the material is free of limited copyright.

<details>
<summary>DMCA</summary>

As 8fold operates in the United States and is governed by those laws, it is our policy to respond to notices of copyright infringement in a manner compliant with the [.DMCA](Digital Millennium Copyright Act) and other applicable laws.

#### Serving notice

There are three ways to notify 8fold of a claim of infringement: online form, email, and regular mail.

You may contact 8fold and select DMCA as the topic.

Send an email [legal@8fold.pro](mailto:legal@8fold.pro).

Or, a physical notice to:

8fold DMCA Claim<br>
300 Montvue Rd.<br>
Knoxville, TN 37919-5546

</details>

## Fold Policy

The [8fold Fold System](/operations/fold-system) is used within 8fold to facilitate trade, incentive, revenue redistribution, and other similar administrative functions.

Folds cannot be redeemed for, traded in for, or converted to cash or cash equivalents. Any member, or group of members, discovered doing so will be subject to removal from 8fold and disqualified from future membership. 8fold cannot be held liable for members attempting to trade Folds for cash or cash equivalents.

A Member cannot earn more than 20,000 Folds from monetary contributions per year.

So long as your total Fold count stays above the minimum threshold for revenue redistribution and your account remains open, you will receive the profit redistribution you qualify for.

To incentivize trade and spending of Folds, they decay over time.

## Revenue Redistribution Policy

Periodically, 8fold redistributes revenue generated to qualifying Members according to their [Fold Level](/operations/fold-system#fold-levels).

Criteria for there to be a distribution event:

1. 8fold is not indebted to any entity, private or public.
2. 8fold does not have short-term assets valued at three months of average expenses.

If a distribution event cannot occur, Folds will not decay.

If a distribution event *can* occur, it will be calculated each year on: January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1.

## Changes to these policies and handbook

8fold periodically updates these policies to ensure legal and internal compliance.

8fold attempts to notify Registered Users of substantive changes before they take effect. Substantive changes are considered those that could negatively impact or negate previous policy and include but are not limited to, changing the location of a previously published page, changing legal jurisdictions and considerations, and the merger or sale of 8fold itself. Non-substantive changes include but are not limited to, correcting typos, rearranging information on a page, and rephrasing that seeks to clarify but not alter intent.

Note: All public 8fold content and change history are available at the [public repository for this site](https://github.com/8fold/site-8fold.pro). For a history prior to the year 2024, you can view the [archived public repository the handbook](https://github.com/8fold/content-8fold.handbook). (Receiving notifications or providing commentary using these repositories requires a GitHub account.)
